These items are what I normally carry on a daily basis. Your needs may be vastly different, but I emphasize functionality and practicality over fashion.

CLOTHING:
I tend to stick with the "gray man" look: One generally solid color (Black, in my case).
T-shirt
Cargo pants
Boots (usually Bates with the side zipper)
Cell phone belt case
Either a CWU-45P flight jacket or a M-65 "vintage army" jacket
MOLLE (MOdular Lightweight Load-carrying Equipment) backpack/pouches

STORAGE PACK:
My main backpack is the NOOLA Military Tactical MOLLE Backpack (solid black). The backpack part alone has a 50L capacity, and it comes with a small bottle holder, a small dump pouch, and a fanny pack with detatchable belt. That belt is what I use for other carry stuff. If you're going to get a backpack, I recommend getting something MOLLE compatible, and I really recommend the aforementioned one. I also recommend getting extra pouches, like the Mission Darkness Dry Shield MOLLE Faraday Pouch. It's a great way to store your electronics if you're going into a major retailer that uses tracking devices to monitor your cell phone and bombard you with ads. Another couple of things I recommend getting are polymer straps and D-rings. Both are compatible with the MOLLE system and can attach more stuff to your backpack.

When it's impractical for me to use my backpack, I put the fanny pack's belt on with a large bottle holder and a separate dump pouch.

When I'm riding my bicycle (Schwinn Loop folding bike), I'm putting 4 MOLLE pouches on it. The pouches are as follows:
2 dump pouches, one of which is holding my chain
The fanny pack, daisy chained to the dump pouch holding my chain
Large bottle holder

OTHER GEAR:
Android phone (daily driver/WiFi hotspot)
iPhone (multimedia device)
Bluetooth speaker (bicycle only)
256GB thumb drive
USB-A to USB-C adapter
USB-A to Lightning adapter
Gerber utility tool
Kubotan attached to my keychain
RFID-blocking wallet
Casio wristwatch
Wired headphones (when taking mass transit)
3.5mm-to-USB-C dongle
3.5mm-to-Lightning dongle
2oz bottle of Purell
Anker 10000mAh power bank
USB-A to USB-C cable
USB-A to Lightning cable
USB-A Charging bricks
USB-A Data blocker
